as Martin Luther said even if I knew
that tomorrow the world would go to
pieces I would still plant my apple tree
some things you build whether you can
control the outcome or not sometimes
it's the process that is the thing
that's meant to be enjoyed it's the
process that you're meant to invest in
and rather than always thinking about
the goal the outcome or what you're
going to get out of something focus on
to something focus on the part of it
that you can control because you can't
always control the outcome you can't
know what's gonna happen tomorrow
tomorrow's not guaranteed to any of us
and yet we all act and yet we create
momentum in our lives when we're at our
best but we do that not because we can
control every aspect we do that because
we accept that there are things that we
cannot control
and as steve maraboli said incredible
change happens in your life when you
decide to take control of what you do
have power over instead of craving
control over what you don't and that's
where a lot of people get lost
they focus not on what they have in
their hands they focus instead on the
things that they can't control it
irritates them it frustrates them it's
like a splinter in their mind they can't
stop thinking about the things that they
don't have control over and they're
blinded to the incredible wealth that is
around them of things that they could
enjoy right here right now that's why
gratitude is such an empowering practice
to sit there and not think of the
glorious things may await you in your
future but rather to think about the
things that you have here in this moment
oxygen in your lungs a simple breeze on
your face a window in your house someone
that you love someone that loves you
nothing that costs money nothing that
was the pot of gold at the end of a
glorious rainbow it's not even about
becoming something extraordinary and
waiting for the results of that it's
simply understanding that the one thing
you can control are your actions today
the choices that you make
what you get to do how you think about
yourself the beliefs you choose to bring
into your life those things you control
and when you understand the power in
acknowledging that control and taking
control and using it that's when your
life is gonna begin to change but first
you have to divorce yourself from being
obsessively interested only in an
outcome if instead you build your
self-esteem you build your pride on
pursuit you build your pride on allowing
yourself to care about something so
deeply
but even though tomorrow is not
guaranteed that you're going to plant
your apple tree today that you're going
to love that process because it is the
thing that you can control you can
control how you show up you can control
how you play you cannot control how
other people react you cannot control
what they think about you but you can
control what you think about yourself
you can earn credibility with yourself
you can control what you do and when you
take full ownership of that and realize
that your life is an exact reflection of
your choices of the things you could
control and what you did with them then
everything begins to change you're not
looking to blame somebody else you're
not even worried about anybody else
you're just asking one simple question
what can I do right now regardless of
tomorrow
to improve my life
focus there and you'll enjoy every day
of your life as Thomas Jefferson said he
who knows best knows just how little he
knows this has been one of the most
surreal things about my experience as an
entrepreneur is that the better I get at
it the more that I do the more I feel
lost the more I feel like there's too
much for me to possibly know and
understand and in that is my power
that's literally the source of my power
because I understand that my journey is
one of learning I understand that as
navall Ravi Kant said the genuine love
for reading itself when cultivated is a
superpower the means of learning are
abundant it's the desire to learn that
scarce but if you have that desire if
you cultivate that desire to learn if
you accept that you're in this big world
that is far too big for you to
understand every piece of it
but in recognizing that you don't
understand it all and putting yourself
on this quest to learn obsessively to
get better to fall in love with the
actual process of gaining knowledge if
you stay hungry for that at all times
and you don't calcify your thoughts into
Dogma but rather stay fresh stay naive
stay hungry and foolish to really learn
and grow then you actually obtain power
and this is the part I want people to
understand look past the words and hear
what I'm really saying as you take on
the knowledge as you're learning one
thing after another after another those
skills have practical application and it
is that practical application born of
understanding how little you really know
that allows you to become far more
and the people that think they know
because when they think they know they
stop throwing and they think they know
they calcified when they think they know
their thoughts get brittle like bone and
break but when you think you know
nothing and you think you have to learn
everything when you're really just
trying to figure out if something works
if it gets you the result then those
skills become real they become tested by
what you're doing they are boundless
because you're always trying to find
that next thing you're never
self-satisfied you're never
self-congratulatory you're simply asking
where do I want to go what skills do I
need to acquire to get there and knowing
that each one of those that you get
brick by brick by brick builds a real
path to where you want to go so fall in
love with the idea that you know nothing
fall in love with the idea that learning
is a superpower fall in love with that
hunger want that want to get better
every day never never be tricked by the
desire to be self-satisfied and never be
tricked by the desire to be great today
never fool yourself into thinking who
you are today is who you can become
I don't care how far you've come I don't
care how many accomplishments are in
your rear view mirror if you fall prey
to that your past will always be bigger
than your future and there's one mandate
that I make of myself and anyone else
that wants to be around that your future
must always be bigger than your past and
the only way for that to be true is to
love how little you really know
and to love how much you can learn if
you just keep going
you
[Music]